You guys in this video are going to be looking at a few different things.
OK so we're going to look at post types or post formats now right now if we look at our theme we have
just basically one kind of post and it's just a standard blog post so we can also have things like Galeries
links images quotes status updates things like that and we can format these different types of posts
in different ways.
OK so I want to show you how to do that how to add that to our theme.
Also we're going to look at with a function called Get template part and that allows us to stop repeating
ourselves.
For instance if we look in our index page we have this this while have posts and then we're just we're
just putting our post same thing in the archive.
OK we're doing the same thing here we're doing the same thing in search ph P and so on.
So we want something that's going to stop us from repeating ourselves over and over.
OK.
I know that each of these files have minor changes but we can implement that inside of a specific content
file.
Ok so I think the best thing to do is to just jump in and show you.
So let's go to index ph P And what we want to look at is everything that is inside of this while loop
.
OK so our post loop and I'm going to just go ahead and grab it all so it's basically that article tagged
to the ending article tag and we're going to cut that and then I'm going to create a new file and save
it as content dot ph p.
All right.
And then we're going to just paste that in there.
Let me just bring this back.
All right.
So save that.
And then what we'll do is go back to index and in it's place we're going to say ph P and then we're
going to use get a template part right.
And then in here we want to pass in the name of the file which we just created which is content.
All right so we'll save that.
Make sure content ph is saved as well.
And if we reload it looks the exact same which is what we want.
OK so now let's take a look at archive PGE.
All right.
So we have some of the same stuff here.
The idea is to get all the everything that's in the while loop into that content file so let's go ahead
and cut this out.
All right.
And then go to content ph P.
Now this is a little different than what's quite different than what we have for a regular blog posts
.
All right.
So what we can do is we can use a conditional OK and we can check to see if this is an archive or a
search result page.
All right so to do that we're going to say HP.
And we're going to open up an if statement here.
Actually I'm going to use the shorthand.
We're also going to have an else
.
All right.
So the if statement it's going to say if is underscore search.
OK so what this what this means is that if we're on a search results page so if we search for something
and this comes up OK it's checking to see if we're on this page.
All right.
We can also check to see if it's on a category or an archive not just category but any kind of archives
so let's say or is archive all right if this is true then we want to just output what we just copied
from the archive.
Post page.
All right.
So just like that.
OK.
Else if it's not search or archived then we want this we're going to just grab all this and cut and
then we'll just piece that inside of the else or I save it and then archive.
We also want what we put in the index file which is this or copy that piece that right there and save
.
All right so if we go and we reload the search page it should look the exact same.
All right.
And just to make sure it's coming from the content file just say test load.
OK so that's not giving us a test.
Let's see.
Oh that's because we didn't put it in the search.
We only put it in the archive.
So let's test that first.
OK so if I click on this category name you can see we're getting test.
All right.
So what we want to do is just like we did in the archive where we put this get template part.
We want to copy that and then put that in the search page as well.
All right.
So it's the same exact code as we have here so we can just paste that in.
And then if we do a search now we get this test.
OK so we know that it's coming from this content page in this conditional.
So save that.
All right so that's all set.
Now we can also implement our content ph P inside of the single as well.
OK because if we look at single we have a lot of the same stuff that we had in the index k we have an
article tag.
I think the only difference is that we're using the excerpt inside of the you know the blog roll.
And also we have the read more link that's not in the single.
So what we can do is let's just see we're going to go from the article tag to the ending article tag
and let's just paste that in the template part.
Save it.
Now if we go to a single page now OK it's we lost that that single page formatting.
So what we want to do here is go into the content page page and just add some conditionals where we
want things to be different.
So for instance the excerpt we want to say ph P if
.
OK so we can say if is single ok if it is single then we want the content
If not then we want the excerpt.
So paste that in and then get rid of that.
OK so let's go back to the single page reload and now we have our content back.
We also want to get rid of this read more.
So let's go down to where that is.
And actually we don't even need to do another conditional we can just grab it and put it right here
.
All right.
So then it won't show up on the single page anymore.
So you can see how we've saved ourselves from repeating ourselves.
OK.
So now archive inside the while loop we just have this one line.
Same thing with the other pages search single and index.
So now what I want to do is get into the the post formats.
All right so let's add a gallery type.
All right so what we want to do is first go to our functions PKP file and we need to enable these these
different formats that we want to use so we can go right under this really registered the nav menus
and let's say
post format support and we'll say add theme's support and we want to add post formats.
Right.
And then the second parameter will be an array of the types of formats we want.
So I'm going to choose three we're going to take a side gallery and the link.
All right.
And if we look at the documentation